README.md, before:

Schooner
========

An implementation of the
[Raft distributed consensus algorithm](https://ramcloud.stanford.edu/wiki/download/attachments/11370504/raft.pdf)
in Rust.

We set out to implement the Raft Consensus Algorithm in Rust. We
joined an existing project by Michael, called Schooner. Raft is a
Distributed Consensus Algorithm - this means that it is a system that
can establish a consistent log across multiple machines in an
asynchronous, lossy network (like those in the real world).

Raft was designed with understandability (and pedagogy) in mind, as
opposed to Paxos, another consensus algorithm that is renowned for its
obscure definition. Raft is new, but as a testament to its
understandability, there are many more Open Source implementations of
it than Paxos, despite Raft being about 20 years younger than Paxos.

Almost all the project documentation is in the
[project wiki](https://github.com/lenary/cs4414-project/wiki),
including a Glossary of terms, a condensed Raft guide, and an overview
of the design of Schooner.

### Background

Other links about the Raft Algorithm:

* http://raftconsensus.github.io/
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YbZ3zDzDnrw
* http://www.infoq.com/presentations/raft
  * [Slides for this presentation](https://speakerdeck.com/benbjohnson/raft-the-understandable-distributed-consensus-protocol)
* http://www.reddit.com/comments/1jm6c8

The Wikipedia pages, describing:

* The Consensus Problem: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_(computer_science)
* Paxos: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paxos_(computer_science)
* Raft: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raft_consensus_algorithm

### Team Members

This was a project submitted as part of the [Spring 2014 UVA Computer
Science Operating Systems Course](http://rust-class.org/), and was
developed by a group consisiting of:

* [Michael Peterson](https://github.com/quux00) (Project Initiator)
* [Chun Wang](https://github.com/chunw)
* [Esteban Amas](https://github.com/eea4ue)
* [Nathan Typanski](https://github.com/nathantypanski)
* [Sam Elliott](https://github.com/lenary)

### LICENSE

The library is licensed under the permissive
[MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), as defined in the
`LICENCE` file.

Commit message:

Add instructions for building Schooner

README.md, after:

Schooner
========

An implementation of the
[Raft distributed consensus algorithm](https://ramcloud.stanford.edu/wiki/download/attachments/11370504/raft.pdf)
in Rust.

We set out to implement the Raft Consensus Algorithm in Rust. We
joined an existing project by Michael, called Schooner. Raft is a
Distributed Consensus Algorithm - this means that it is a system that
can establish a consistent log across multiple machines in an
asynchronous, lossy network (like those in the real world).

Raft was designed with understandability (and pedagogy) in mind, as
opposed to Paxos, another consensus algorithm that is renowned for its
obscure definition. Raft is new, but as a testament to its
understandability, there are many more Open Source implementations of
it than Paxos, despite Raft being about 20 years younger than Paxos.

Almost all the project documentation is in the
[project wiki](https://github.com/lenary/cs4414-project/wiki),
including a Glossary of terms, a condensed Raft guide, and an overview
of the design of Schooner.

### Building this Repo

You will need to install bleeding-edge Rust: we've been using
mozilla/rust#35f3f7a

Then, from this directory run `make`. `make test` will build and run
the tests (of which there are a few, but not many).

### Background

Other links about the Raft Algorithm:

* http://raftconsensus.github.io/
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YbZ3zDzDnrw
* http://www.infoq.com/presentations/raft
  * [Slides for this presentation](https://speakerdeck.com/benbjohnson/raft-the-understandable-distributed-consensus-protocol)
* http://www.reddit.com/comments/1jm6c8

The Wikipedia pages, describing:

* The Consensus Problem: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_(computer_science)
* Paxos: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paxos_(computer_science)
* Raft: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raft_consensus_algorithm

### Team Members

This was a project submitted as part of the [Spring 2014 UVA Computer
Science Operating Systems Course](http://rust-class.org/), and was
developed by a group consisiting of:

* [Michael Peterson](https://github.com/quux00) (Project Initiator)
* [Chun Wang](https://github.com/chunw)
* [Esteban Amas](https://github.com/eea4ue)
* [Nathan Typanski](https://github.com/nathantypanski)
* [Sam Elliott](https://github.com/lenary)

### LICENSE

The library is licensed under the permissive
[MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), as defined in the
`LICENCE` file.
